Hi, everyone.
In this next year, we're going to create the game loop.
All right, so first things first, I'm going to say I'm going to call this run game, so run game function,
a.k.a. the game loop, right.
And let's create this function.
So run game.
What do we want to do here first?
So the first thing is I want to clear the canvas and I'm going to be commenting out the steps so they
are not confusing to you.
So I'm going to say clearing the canvas.
I'm not going to go over why, because we have talked about it a lot, so I'm going to grab the dry
rectangle function and I'm going to pass in zero for the exposition, zero for the Y position, you
can see that it gives us all the parameters for which we need to pass and the arguments.
Zero for the exposition, zero for the Y position.
What about the with the width should be our canvas elements with.
So let's click here.
Canvas element with and it should be dot dot with.
And after that we have the height of the canvas.
So canvas element dot height.
And right after that what do we have.
We have the can we have the color.
You can see that it underlines the color.
So the color of the canvas is actually going to be four six eight sorry.
Eight three a zero.
Right.
Not not a yasue that is zero.
So we have successfully cleared the canvas.
What I'm going to do as.
In this project, I'm not going to be using data request, animation frame, I'm just just going to
be using the timer.
So we have talked about how there are two.
There are two ways of actually like creating.
That frames per second illusion, one was the builtin method, which was discussed in animation frame,
the second is set interval.
I'm going to be using set and interval in this game and I'm going to say looping the game to keep it
running.
Right.
And first off, I'm going to create a constant frames per second.
All right.
So we are going to have 60 frames per second.
The higher the fringe, the smoother the game.
But you need to find like the perfect balance of that so the game doesn't look so set interval.
We are going to call our.
I'm going to call a game init function, I know it's not the run game function, but I'm going to tell
you why.
So we are going to divide it by the FPS.
So right after that, what I'm going to do is I'm going to create the game, the game initialization
function, and I'm going to say function game init.
I'm not going to pass in any groups, any parameters.
I'm just going to I'm just going to call a run game in here.
Right.
So we have called the Irun game there.
And now let's actually save this and let's check it out.
So there we go.
Our canvas is drawn and you can see that the thing is about this canvas, something that we can't actually
visualize as that the canvas is constantly being redrawn 60 times per one second.
The canvas is being drawn and clearly drawn and clear, and the color for the canvas comes from the
right there.
The next thing that I would like to do here is let's go ahead and let's call the functions that we have
created there.
So for the draw, not for the drawing, it's a function I'm not going to pass in anything.
Right.
So I'm just going to say, let's just call it draw net, save it.
Let's come here.
Let's check it out.
There we go.
Sabaneta has been successfully drawn, OK?
They are completely identical.
So we just we just had to draw that net.
Call that right.
And OK, so the next thing that I want to call is going to be drawing our scores.
So draw, score, function.
And what was the function, it was dry text, so so if I come up here, this is our text we had, we
must have content then the exposition, the Y position and then the color.
So the content of this draw text is going to come from the player, the player score.
Right.
So which player score it is going to be is it depends on which players actually score it.
So we need to call this function two times.
So I'm going to call it two times or I'm just going to call it once.
I'm just going to copy it.
So the first time that I want to pass and the content, the content is going to be player paddle are
I don't score.
Right.
So what is the score?
The score is initially this is the score is initially zero.
So it is going to grab that and it is going to pass it right here.
So that is the first argument for the second one we need to pass and the exposition and then the Y position
and then the color.
So now I'm going to go and I'm going to go over the concept for like 30 seconds and then we are going
to jump into game.
So this is our canvas.
This line says that the canvas has divided by two.
So this part is canvas with divided by two.
All right.
And this is also canvas with divided by two.
But now keep.
Now, let's think let's imagine if I divide each of these halves of the canvas by two, we are going
to get four different segments of a canvas.
Right.
It means that we have the first segment of the canvas, then the second, then the third and then the
fourth.
Right.
And how why do I want to do this is because the drawing, these texts that's actually I've actually
drawn this.
I've divided the canvas and this text when I when I divide the canvas directly in this metal, this
text appears right there.
So the text appears right at the first the intersection of the first and the second segment of the canvas.
This text appears right at the intersection of the third and fourth segments of the canvas.
So let's interpret that into code.
So the for the r.i the intersection is the first segment and then the second segment.
All right.
So I'm just going to I'm just going to open parentheses.
It's going to be the first segment.
The first segment of what the first segment of the canvas is with how many times the canvas has been
divided.
It has been divided by four times.
Very simple.
So this is the with this is where the position for that is going to come from.
You can tweak these values as well.
And how about the Y position?
So for the Y position, I've divided the canvas into ten different parts and the score is directly on
the first segment.
So it's on the first segment.
This is second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth.
All right.
So it is going to be on the first segment of that division.
We basically think of it like Excel tables, like tables that you just divide the canvas divided and
you just put something somewhere.
I've basically done that.
This is basic alignment using canvas.
So this is going to be Dutkiewicz.
How many divisions are there?
There are ten divisions and I'm going to grab that and I'm going to put the division right here.
All right.
And I'm going to grab this division and I'm going to put it right here.
I know.
I know we don't need to multiply it by one, but this is just because whenever we get to the draw text
for the A.I., this is going to make sense.
Why?
Why have I provided that they're the color is going to be white.
So now if I say that, you can see that it rearranges our code.
So this is going to be draw text for the R.I and this is going to be for the A.I. So for the AI, where
is the canvas versus the score in the with.
It's directly at the intersection of the third and the fourth, so instead of passing one, I'm just
going to pass in three and the vertical position is going to be the same.
And the score, the color is also going to be the same.
So if I if I save it and if I come here, you can see that it goes there.
And now if I if I were to just like, decrease the width of this window and just keep it floating around,
take a look at this one.
So I'm just going to make it make this one smaller.
So if I were to put it like at five five segments of of ten segments of the height, it should come
to the middle.
See, it's in the middle.
If I put it at the eight segments of the height, it's going to go there.
If I put it at 10 segments of the height, it is going to go there.
If you put it at one segment of the height, it's going to go there.
All right.
And the same one at the same goes for the width.
So if I put it at the fourth, it is going to go it's going to go off.
If I put it at the second, you can see it's directly in the center.
If I put it at the one, then both of them are on top of each other.
That's why they're thick.
So let's put it at the third one and it's come here.
So we have successfully drawn them.
The next thing that I want to do as I want to draw our paddles in this lecture as well, because these
are really simple.
Right?
So I'm going to say a draw drawing the paddles.
For our I and I, so we have a function for drawing rectangles, we are going to call this function
and whenever we pass in different parameters, it is going to grab it with different positions.
It's going to create different rectangles in different positions.
So the first rectangle is going to be right here.
The second one is going to be right there.
So we already know how that is going to work.
So I'm going to come down here.
I'm going to call the draw rect function.
Right, first off, let's draw the player, our eye panel, so I'm going to say player ah oops.
Ah I what is the exposition that is going to be the exposition of the panel.
We have already talked about that and this is going to grab it from this object that we have here.
So this is our object and it is going to grab the exposition from that, that's why we used it up there.
So it's easier for us to reference it the way position is going to be the Y position for the panel,
the width is going to be the width of the panel.
So with the height is going to be the height of the panel.
What else do we have?
So finally we have color, so the color is going to be the color for the panel and if I save it and
if I come here, we should see our panel.
There we go.
Now, you can see that this game is getting closer and closer to something that we can use.
So if I say if I copy that, put it right here, I'm just going to grab all the prize and I'm going
to change them to I.
And that's it.
And there we go, we have our part for the air, because these values, these properties are coming
from the object that we created.
And the final thing that I want to do in this lecture is.
Draw the ball, so I'm going to say drawing the ball for drawing any sort of circle circles, we have
creative utility function for that and we can basically grab this function and pass and the X Y radius
and color.
And it is going to draw as many circles as we want, but we want only one.
So I'm going to call that function, draw a circle and I'm going to say grab the exposition of the ball.
Then for the position, for the Y position.
Grab the Y position of the ball.
For the with grab the balls with for the height.
For the hide, grab the Von's height and for the color guard, grab the balls color.
All right, so let's say that we should see our ball.
I mean, is there any error?
I mean, they should inspect it.
There are no errors.
And why do not we see that?
So we have our borders, XP, that Wikipedia, Editta, GCG, DCL, Okelo, our draw circle.
One, two, three, four.
How many have we passed and one, two, three, four, five.
Oh, this is the exposition for the ball we don't have any with in height, what do we have?
We just have a radius.
Okay, so I'm going to remove the height because they're not rectangles.
That's why we didn't see the ball.
There we go.
There is our ball.
So we have successfully created the functions for the elements, the properties for the elements, and
then we call the functions with those properties for the game elements and it is going to redraw rescreen
60 times per second.
That's it for this structure.
See you guys in the next one.